So hello everyone and welcome to a new episode of Sahaj Times Podcast. My name is Lele, I'm the host of this podcast and right now today is the 27th of July and what has just happened is that the Oasis came back, they're doing their new tour, they're coming back there together again and guess who else is together again after two months of shooting episodes. really far from each other, not together with other guests, but without any co-hosts beside Rohit that helped me at once.

Fabri, how's life? It's us. Very good. Very happy to be back.

I missed you.

Okay, cool.

I don't know. I feel like masculine enough, toxic masculine enough to say that it's fine. you could keep it there for yourself. I am friendly enough to say that I missed you. Because you are a father and I can't wait for you to bring some fatherhood into this episode. Talking about kids. Talking about fatherhood, some Yoda quotes.

So Fabri, how are you? Life is good. So mentioning, so today I'm in a funny mood. I'm just going to tell you to begin with. I'm just going to disturb you and mess around the entire one hour. I spent two weeks with my kids. I'm on holidays, so I'm in teenage mode.

I'm just one of them. My poor wife has to be with three kids at home.

So the first thing that came to mind is this. I did this really cool episode with Romina two weeks ago. Whoever didn't see it, go see it. On such marriages, because today is a bit of a continuation of that and then we have very little views right and then i'm like oh it's july it's holiday then what happens is the next week lele does the episode on mental health and he has a lot of views and i got so annoyed at that like absolutely mega annoyed at that situation and i can see from your smile that you're very satisfied about the situation Actually, I don't even know what you're talking about.

If we actually talk about the views, they were more or less the same. If you actually go and check. But we're not doing this for the views. We're doing this because, I don't know, we want to make someone's day a little bit better and to give some Sahaj entertainment and also a little bit of teaching even though I'm not in the position to teach anything.

But I think a lot, which is my unbalanced position can bring me, can help me to do a Sahaj podcast, to question and think.

And what am I thinking about?

What are we thinking about? So since it's July, we are approaching the marriages. And every single year things happen during the marriages. and I feel like in general it gets like I don't know people go to the marriages if you put your name down with a little bit of something like in your chest you know there is like a little bit of a pain a little bit of stress a little bit of anxiety because of course you don't know what is going to happen and that happens with every single step in our lives but actually for this month for this series of episodes we would like to bring some some stories some guests and some experiences that maybe can help people to live this process in a lighter way in a little bit of better way and maybe in a more successful way for the future because you might already know what might happen to you especially if it's like your first time putting your name down or if it's like your first time in a relationship. There is going to be a marriage.

It's not easy. We were born with this idea, but it's not easy because that's your first relationship. You don't know how to behave, for many people, you don't know how to behave in certain situations, and you have to also learn from other people that have been there before you. And who is today's guest, Fabri?

Especially if we can learn from those that have been with Shri Mataji, I would say, on this topic go married during that time and got nice advice so today uh we can do a little game i can say i'm sure that if i'm gonna say the profile of the person and many of the people are gonna guess with this okay let's play this game it's a very sweet auntie she's from the uk she got a separation in 79 in india uh three years later in 82 she got married which by today's standards would be speed of light right imagine somebody comes and such and three years after they have married the family lived uh sometimes in vancouver uh now in uk and by now i'm sure that most of the people already kind of get the idea but this specific last item will give away the name because auntie has five kids so by now everybody is screaming payment family so welcome to auntie felicity hello auntie let me fix this hello Jai Shri Mataji thank you thank you so much for having me it's a very special honor to be on your beautiful beautiful podcast that you do so i um yes you were saying about three years after realization getting married well i should tell you that my husband had only had his realization for three months no way yes classic those times though yes very yes everything was very speeded up in those days you know so that was pretty amazing yeah when you met him he was still learning the yeah i know and that was one of the things after we got married and we went back to england for a while and i said oh let's go foot soap and he went oh what really no what is it oh right he's only just got realization like three months ago you know so he's not necessarily into that habit so yeah that was that was an inch it was a very interesting thing but we're skipping ahead a bit yeah yeah you go first yeah we can skip a little bit even though it was interesting i didn't know that Tanti. But so can I ask you just to start, then we can see where we go. Can you tell us your experience with such marriages? What did Shri Mataji tell you? And just tell us, tell us, like, you're free to go. No, no, no limits. Yeah. So, so I, so I would say Shri Mataji was from like 1980, In 1981, she was preparing us for marriages. We were a small collective. I guess maybe we had like 40, 50 in England at that point. I can't remember the exact year. It was either 80, 81. It must have been 80. No, it was 80.

and we were in Shri Mataji's apartment in Victoria Gardens and she was sitting with her back to the window. Often she sat in that position and she was just sort of talking about more mundane things. You know, conversations would just, sometimes, you know, she'd be talking about curtains or, you know, not always so-called deep things. she would keep the conversations going and talk to us so that we could sit there absorb her vibrations and clear you know every minute in her presence was like you were being worked on your your chapters your emotions your thought everything you know it was like total workout um and in those days there was a lot working out in all of us because we'd only just come into Sahaja Yoga so it could be very painful sometimes anyway so she's just i just i don't remember the conversation and then suddenly the atmosphere changed and it was like it got very you felt this depth and importance and she said to us you are the foundation stones on which i'm building the Sahaja Yoga, my vision. And she said, but I'm sending you the children and they are the ones that are going to change the world. And I'm not saying this to put pressure on anybody at all.

I'm just saying that this is how important the marriages were. And she said, and she actually said, at that point, everyone was pretty well, mostly under 30. There was two couples who'd come into Sahaja Yoga already married and she said if you don't have children if you're not going no she said if you're not going to get married you can get out of Sahaja Yoga that's that's what she said so you know right from that point we understood okay this is our job this is our job to help support Shri Mataji to fulfill her vision and change the spirituality and humanity of the world and so then I would say sort of fast forward and the following year this young couple came to her I can remember in the ashram in Dollis Hill and they must have just you know been chatting and being friendly and they said oh Shamariji we'd like to get married so at this point there had been no marriages or maybe one there was one young woman so there was one young woman that mother married to an Indian and we all went ah lucky her she's married to an Indian you know it was a disaster within like two three days and they showered her with jewels and all these lovely things you know that Indians do but within three days nope it was finished no no mother said no that's not going to work for you and and and that was like oh okay it's not the be all and end all of everything you know and so I would say those early three years before I got married there were so many dramas and situations that mother created to work out all our conditioning so you know so this was one of them and we had this saying there but for the grace of God go I that something is happening to that person this week it could be me next week so I would say we were very supportive of each other you know it wasn't like oh what's wrong with that person you know mother's telling them off. It wasn't like that. It was just like, okay, yeah, this is happening. And it was much more like a big family. And there were no secrets at all. Shri Mataji would talk about everything amongst us so that we learned from each other. We learned from each other's mistakes. We learned for the good things, you know, and she would just use whoever she thought she should use to test us all.

So this young couple came and they said, so I hope these things that I'm sharing will give some perspective and background, you know, because people sometimes go, oh, you were so lucky Shri Mataji was with you. You know, you knew Shri Mataji. So I want to explain that it was a little bit more complex than that and that things haven't changed that much from then.

so I hope you know some of these examples will will help that and so that then young people will have a little bit more confidence you know in themselves so this young couple came and I remember I was sitting there we were all together in Dolis Hill Ashram and Shri Mataji said to them will it make you happy and they said oh yes mother yes so fast forward they get married another disaster um his own different cultures one was one was greek one was english different expectations conditionings um some other things that i won't mention you know it's not fair but it just you know fell apart i mean mother tried you know she she made suggestions she actually at one point um got someone to make the husband buy a present for the wife you know like this was a you know she did i can't remember much but she did different things you know and then and then finally she said okay okay that's it it's over and she said to them you know i said to you will it make you happy and they said you know oh but mother you said you know it will make us happy she goes but that wasn't the point the point is marriage is for joy not for happiness you know it's deeper than that it's much deeper than that it's to give you joy you know so suddenly our attention went from this more superficial level of marriage to okay this is different and that was a big wake-up call i mean i i can remember going you know it was just something very deep that went into us and then other after that there were a couple of like maureen so maureen was a lovely example shamadhaji did say you know if you find somebody outside of Sahaja Yoga you know bring them in bring them in and she was at college and her husband her now husband was also at college and wanted to marry her. So she did it really nicely. She brought him to Shri Mataji. You know, this, he wants to marry me. She was detached from it. You know, she didn't have any, whatever you say, mother, you know, she was surrendered.

He's going to force it. Yeah. And Shri Mataji said, no, no, he's born realized. Very good. So they, so they then had a marriage. There were two marriages and I can't remember the second. I apologize that my memory is not as accurate but what i do remember properly i will say but if i can't i i will say i can't so um so so we had a this was a beautiful wedding and i know that they've talked about their their wedding already so then fast forward later on i i think i can't remember if it was anyways 81 shi mariji starts to have i think patting anyway that doesn't matter but then we started having more collective marriages first there's a couple of marriages together then at chelsham road there was two sets of collective marriages one was like 16 couples and then there was another batch of of marriages and it was really it was really a huge move forward that suddenly you know the collective had grown a lot there was now by 81 it was spread into europe so we had italians and Swiss and you know all these European countries that come in so there was a bigger pool of yogis for mother you know to choose from and in general she was suggesting and matching and saying oh you know try this um one couple had come in together but then separated and then Shri Mataji said later to the husband to the you know the the yogi maybe you know you should marry ask her ask her if she would like so it's very important to understand there was always choice there was always choice and if you didn't feel comfortable you weren't happy that's fine and there was no mother didn't make a big deal about it at all okay that's fine we'll find you someone else or i have someone else in mind she also talked a lot about the men getting married because they were catching on left nabi she would say ah you need to get married left nabi catch will settle you down you know so so it was always the attention was on the vibrations of the marriage and and i think when when the first couple had that not happy marriage she might she explain now i'm remembering she explained she said when you get married you said you should be matched vibrationally so you balance each other and she she said this again later on she says i match you for vibrations for your evolution for your spiritual growth i match you so that you know you have balance together to grow together and it was interesting because there were a couple of couples who chose themselves and went and shumaraji you know so shumaraji in her motherly graciousness is very rare for her to say no she would only say if you'd already decided you would like to do this she would just go along with it if you came to her and you were detached and surrendered is this a good idea and you'd have to be completely surrendered and detached then she would give you an honest answer yeah you know and and um so so one or two of those couples who match themselves actually went out of Sahaja Yoga and you could see and i think mother talked about it you know they were attracted to you know either they were both a bit left-sided because there are similarities they match by similarity yeah and then they support each other's weaknesses and then it just you know negativity works and took them out of Sahaja Yoga so and then you spin out exactly yeah then you spin out that's right so then I guess we could so I'll just share a little bit about so there were a lot of little dramas you know there was one gentleman that mother suggested a match and he said oh no no so she said okay so then she found six in succession situation six different yoginis um to marry and they all said no they all said no i don't want to be married to him and so finally he said okay i better marry the first one who was happy to marry me you know i go back to it yeah and you could see it was a very nice match it was a very nice match but but that's the point we so we had little tests before we got and so for myself personally um i had this i'll just share quickly i had this one brother i would go down to this collective and visit which i really enjoyed and as the marriages were coming up um you know they'd say okay we're going to have marriages now and it was happened very quickly like within a period of two weeks and some people would come and say you know i'd like to marry so-and-so mother um uh that was another match that didn't work out I remember and Shri Mataji would start making suggestions you know go go and ask and see if they're happy with that and one of the brothers said to me it was completely a platonic brother oh I don't know if I should marry you or so and so so I was really shocked because this had you know it wasn't in my attention at all I was I was actually waiting I was so relieved that Shumataji was going to you know pick someone for me that I didn't have to think about it anymore I didn't have to because I knew I you know when you look at someone you see the outside of them you you you really don't know all the subtleties and complexities that's going on inside and you when you get married then you find out about all those things and for me I just thought I can't see the depth of a person you know which Shri Mataji does so I was really relieved that I wouldn't have to that was one responsibility off my back I didn't have to think about that anymore and so anyway so this young man and I just thought I don't know what to do with this you know it was really like bothering me and I didn't know if he was going to follow it through and I didn't feel comfortable and that was the week we had a seminar in Dorset and I happened to be in the car with Shumataji and I just and I it was in my attention that I want to give this to mother I just I would want to get rid of this and we were in the car and it went very quiet no one was talking and I was sitting behind her and suddenly I felt this is my moment and I just very humbly said oh Shumataji you know so-and-so said to me he didn't know whether he should marry me or this girl and I just left it like that so I didn't say anything completely like you know I give this to you mother and she just was quiet for a while and then she said you should marry someone who who will talk to you who you can talk to and I just went okay done finished you know which was very sweet it was very sweet and I thought yeah I guess it would be nice to be married because he was very quiet this guy it was aquarius and it was kind of a bit up in the air there you know i mean i wasn't on my radar at all i was not looking at anyone like that at all you know so then um so then within a day or two shumaraji so they were we were having this seminar and i remember in the afternoon that people were shuman she was suggesting people to to be matched and she suddenly said, ah, Felicity should marry so-and-so. And I suddenly felt very shocked because I realized that I'd never, this very lovely deep yogi who I knew was lovely and deep, but he did not look like, I suddenly realized I had an expectation of what my husband was going to look like which was kind of tall and um well i guess i should say handsome how but i wasn't i hadn't it wasn't conscious it wasn't a conscious thing and i went oh my goodness i didn't know you thought that well you know and i so then it got very confusing and i you know i'm going oh i don't you know i don't understand this why why is this a good match but i trusted Shri Mataji so i just said to myself, I'm not going to think about this at all. Shri Mataji, you show me why this is a good match. Please show me so I can understand why this is a good match. And it's in my heart, I said this.

And so two days passed. The third morning, as I was waking up, I suddenly had this vision of being with this yogi. And I felt completely calm and contentment and companionship. I thought, oh, marriage is supposed to be friendship and companionable.

It's not this sort of emotional rollercoaster, a big thing that you sort of grow up with in the media, that you meet the one, and it's going to be, oh, you know. It's not like that. It's much more level and just sort of balanced. and you make friends and and then i could feel the love within that kind of deeper relationship you know how the depth would grow the love would grow and i thought oh oh that's what marriage is about and it felt so nice and then as it turned out after a few days i hadn't heard anything and i said to mother you know oh i just was wondering she goes oh no no no he doesn't want to marry you it's fine like that you know it was your test yeah yeah exactly exactly you know so so we all had you know little situations and things like that that mother was working these things through us and then there was another instance um we were at we were we were at a puja in brighton we were preparing for the puja and I wasn't feeling good in myself I couldn't seem I felt like I must help but at the same time I was feeling like I need to sit down I'm not feeling balanced you know but yes I should go and help you know and I was really in this kind of oh and I just stood outside mother's door just to kind of try and settle myself you know and then the door opened and And Shri Mataji said, what is it? What's up with you?

Come on in, you know. So I came in and I sat in front of her. I knelt in front, you know. And as I was there, the other people who'd been in the room left.

And it was just me and Shri Mataji, which wasn't usual, you know. And I'm just sitting there. She's so sweet. And so she would start talking about some things.

You know, she would often, she would talk about things to take my attention off myself. so I wouldn't be, you know, just... And suddenly, she started talking about this married couple. It was both Indian. One had come especially from India.

The other was already in England, but not raised in England. So very different cultures.

And she started to say to me, she started to complain about... not complain she started to tell me that the wife had been complaining a lot about her husband had been saying this about him and that about him and you know and she was saying what do you think what do you think about this you know is this is this okay is this okay you know and and I remember I always I never want to say anything bad about anybody you know so I'm just not saying things but she pushes at you this is your test you see so she pushes at you because she wants you to answer she wants to know you know and so finally and I could sort of feel obviously the way she's saying all this this is not okay you should not be doing this you know you should not be complaining to other people period or even criticizing your husband and and I just said uh oh no you know do you think this is okay you know she'd leave for do you think this is okay is this good you know and and i said oh no no no no no you know you know and it was very and i felt like mother's telling me this for a reason this is a lesson that i must learn you know um and i didn't think of myself as a judgmental or critical person you know that wasn't my concept of myself but anyway i i you know i thought oh this is important this is important i have to remember this you know so so i think in context of that i'll fast forward to after we were married and so i'll go back and say the story of our marriage because it was quite unusual it was quite unusual but so the day after we were married we so that year we all got married and i'll tell more details And then Shimadiji booked hotels. She got them to book a hotel for the married couples to go to the night of the marriage. Oh, wow. Yes.

Oh, wow. That's what I thought. Oh, wow. You know.

And so we spent the night. I think it was because she was really trying to help us bond together as couples, you know. Give you space. Yes.

And to give you some space to be together. And it was really sweet. Sweet. He told me all about his home and his friends.

And, you know, you really could get a feeling in a personal space together, away from the collective, which was always sort of impeding into your consciousness.

And it was very sweet. And then in the morning, all the couples were having breakfast together at separate little tables of two people opposite each other. And he wasn't really talking very much, which was a relief to me because I was a big talker. and it was a big relief that I didn't it was a good listener yeah it was very nice and so we were just sitting there in companionable silence eating our breakfast and suddenly into my head came all these judgmental thoughts like oh he's doing this like it was like some kind of boot thing you know it just like jumped on me and it was so strong and it wanted to say to him why are you doing this why are you doing that you know and I remembered this experience with mother and I thought ah she was trying to save me from this you know and I literally just closed my mouth like this and I thought don't open your mouth don't say anything because I could feel it it's like it just wanted to jump out at him and and I was very conscious that you know that we were in this special place together we just got married and that you have to create this beautiful loving relationship together and that doesn't belong anywhere that's not going to you know do anything at all yeah so i just can't explain how grateful i was that i'd had that experience you know and so i just shut up i didn't say anything it was like no i'm not going to say anything at all And then it just went away, you know, maybe it went off to another table and tried it.

The next couple left me alone. And I just remember going, oh, thank goodness, you know, like, OK. But it was such a strong experience that I think it made me really be on alert, you know, to not allow critical thoughts, you know, to come in or judgmental thoughts to come in. and I think and I'll add to this story because this is the right place um many years later I think so I was in England on my own because I'd brought my son to be part of the collective and go to the Sahaja school so this must have been like 88 1988 and I was at the end of the visit and I was going back to Canada and I went at the end of a puja or program or something and I went to say goodbye to Shri Mataji I was going back and she was you know very sweet oh okay yes yes and then she said and how's your husband so I have to say in my ego I obviously at that point still had some like you know well he does this and he does that you know and I said I said you know I have to absolutely pull my ears and I said to her in a very you know light way oh um his ego is much better now mother and she just lit into me she was just like oh you what is the matter with you why are you so critical why can't you and she said she mentioned someone else she goes oh you're just like so-and-so you know she's terrible like that and then she said to me why can't you just love him and i just went okay Shri Mataji wow that was my answer you know so i really want to share that this is not just for me this is for all of us this is how we should be you know she wanted us to enjoy each other to be light and to be joyful and happy and interestingly at that same puja um we had a new leader she changed the leaders in canada and that's one of the reasons as I was going back, you know, at that time, I thought, this is a good change. And he came to me and I must have said, you know, yeah, I'm coming back. And he said to me, you know what Shri Mataji just told me? She said to me, because the previous leader had been extremely critical and very divisive in her criticisms and constantly throwing people out of the collective because, oh, they're too left-sided or they're this and that and he said she said to me allow the negativity to come up and be exposed and don't pay attention to it i'm working it out and i thought wow and i think i always felt after that that that's also in marriage you know that you have to that we're on a journey together when you're married you're on a journey together you are separate people on separate spiritual paths different rates or evolution not rates but you know going through different things but yes but yes different stages but you were also together you know like you were saying the wheels of the chariot you know you're together but you're on different paths and i learned that it's not for us to judge and criticize it's very easy to see in the other partner things that aren't like you and in the beginning you think oh why is he doing that why why is that happening um and in your innocence and your inexperience you can think oh that's wrong you know but it's not it's just different it's just different and if you so that really helped me to let go of that feeling that you're responsible for their growth you're not it's nothing to do with you it's completely between them and shumataji you know and they often they'll meditate you know so my husband meditated differently in that we would sit in meditation he liked to just be mostly quiet and just to be quiet at that time when we were first married I was very used to doing mantras you know putting on mother's talks because I had a lot of thoughts and thinking this helped me to be you know more quiet and I just but I remember sort of feeling like oh is he really meditating you know is he going deep but that's not for me to decide you can't you can't see the depth of another person really only Shri Mataji can you know and so i've got a little off track here but yeah yes i think there's a really important point one thing that came to my mind actually because i've seen to myself also sometimes your husband and wife or spouse could also be off but the other thing is also these are things that you need to work within the family and criticizing publicly your spouse even in a joking way this is what i learned because italians they like to tell jokes and stories and and sometimes you know my wife is like you know you make me look like a goofy cartoon character all the time you know because i like to make fun stories and and i had to learn that because your relationship is so sacred within the marriage.

It's between you and Shreemarajir and your spouse.

Even if there is a problem, it is really not your place to share it unless I'm getting beaten up. All right, fine. Then you go talk to the leader and you fix something, right? But I had this story, very interesting story.

So my best friend, of course, Lely is also my best friend. But my best friend of my age, his name is Andrea from Rome. She's married to Giannaghi, she's one of my favorite sisters in the world. We have a common chat of the families.

And because my wife doesn't speak Italian, usually it's Andrea and I and Giannaghi.

So, you know, it's not fair. You know, we're continuously pulling her leg, right and left, right and left. And I remember there was a month that we really did it a lot.

And it's very innocent jokes. you know you send these little memes or the instagram videos of the wife uh getting too angry about things and the husband is like okay just calm down honey and she was completely crazy because she said calm down right like small things like this nothing you know crazy but it was a bit continuous for a month and i remember that you've got into the fun of it exactly and again it is in a way innocent, but it is not if it is too long. And I had this dream that night. I go to sleep and basically we are in this big table, Shimagji's at the other table and there's all sorts of yogis and Andrea and Giannaki are there, my wife are there. And again, Andrea and I are looking at each other, smiling, making a little joke, but Giannaki, you know, but my wife is wearing a ball, you know, we're laughing. And then at some point I do a second or a third joke, I don't remember what.

And Shinaji just looks and is like, that's enough now. And then, in a very sweet, joyful way, she started making jokes about me.

And everybody at the table is laughing like crazy. And I actually, I didn't mind at all because she did it in such a sweet way, beautiful way, joyful. I was part of the joke, but also it made me understand how does it feel now that you're on the other side, right? And it was very sweet.

It was very beautiful. But I also got the message. So the next day, actually, I text Janaki. Like, Janaki, I'm so sorry, you know, for this Monday.

Because there is that sacredness about your spouse. About your marriage. And he's within God. And again, even light jokes, they have to be measured.

This is something I learned from my wife. I feel she really taught me that.

well it's it's also i mean humor is very important in the marriage and and i i mean it's interesting because i'm from england and the you know when i was in the collective there the brothers we could make like you're saying we could make jokes with each other and i saw how in a nice way you could tease someone about some um weakness they had you know like oh you're getting into that you know and it was done through the heart and in england they could take that but when i went to Canada not at all and you know my husband would say to me why are you being so mean to me why are you being so aggressive and I went okay okay but I do remember one instant that I was he's a very he became in time a very light sleeper to the point that I would be having to get up at night and I would be so quietly tiptoeing out of the room and he would hear something and wake up and like roar at me you know and I just thought this is too much and this went on a few times and then I thought I felt like I felt like mother saying to me okay you have to make a joke out of this you know so the next morning he's perfectly normal I went oh it's you again I had such a fright last night.

And he laughed and he laughed.

So humor is important. Absolutely. And things, you know, so that you have lightness as well. But it's also about respect, isn't it?

So what you're saying is that the jokes, they go too far and it's not. Exactly. It's, I don't know, I really felt for this.

my wife had a good subtlety that i didn't have and i learned that through our relationship this thing of even if it's a joke even if it's innocent somehow you need to have your attention and understand if it's the right time or not even see that that's what's so beautiful about a balanced couple because she could see that if this was something in you that you hadn't learned yet but she could see it but in a nice way together you learn to you know you learn through the balance and that's the beauty that when you can see that that you help each other and that maybe you're learning some things you know and he's not but it's like you said stages you know i i had to yeah i had to change a lot in the beginning um partly because of things that he couldn't handle I could see you know and so I thought you know okay I'll I'll just have to compromise on that or something you know but then over time the you know things things change and and that's what I really wanted to share that you're on a journey together and you have to be patient with each other you know and what you see at the beginning you know you're first married and and you have your lovely sort of you know six months honeymoon period where you just see the best in each other and hopefully you will just you know let each other be and enjoy and then kundalini comes down and starts working out in each other's preperas and you start to see oh okay he's doing this or he's doing that you know it doesn't mean that you have to correct him or that you have to change him but you it's just like mother's going she's just making you aware of that so that you can be you know through your awareness and understanding you can balance each other you know and um for example so i shared this with you two before um sometimes i would get quite emotional something would happen would upset me and and i had learned he was very calm and he had a calming influence on me and would help me make me feel better you know i'm i went and i'm going oh you know and he went stop he said stop go away come back when you're more calm and I went what no but he was absolutely no no this is you know too much and and I guess it was you know I had not control of my emotion so I just had to kind of swallow and go and it was really hard in the beginning you know and I was kind of very cross with him that he was making me do this but I went away and I saw you know big breaths and then I came back and I just went and then I said it very calmly and then he was able to respond you know and and and just say why are you letting this bother you you know he had a way of just saying things or you know balancing when when I sort of learned to see that this this this was his way of yeah yeah and also I know one thing that I think could be very helpful for for women is that I mean we're very extreme we were quite extremely opposite my husband myself and he um he didn't sort of multitask and he and I would when I would be asking him something or explaining about something I would give all the details you know oh this and this you know all the detail and finally he said just be short I don't need all the details you know and and of course again I would feel cross you know like but i want to share all the details you know and then i know he's got the full picture but but then i realized that was it was overwhelming him and he was just zoning out you know so then i learned okay he has a different kind of brain to mine and i'll just be to the point and and i also learned that i was used to being able to being presented with a problem or something i could immediately come up with solutions or responses but he didn't work like that yeah like to absorb and to you know have time and then so then I learned okay just say what you want briefly and then come back let it sit with him you know and then maybe the next day or the day after I would just sort of follow it up a little bit and then he would just he would come back you know and then I wasn't stressing him I wasn't causing him stress so there's a lot of adjustment you know in the early years as you get to know each other and and that's okay you know because that's what I think uh I mean you mentioned that I think in in the episode of the will you the wheels of the chariot to a merit we mentioned this a little bit but I think what is important to understand is that for certain things I mean of course you're a different type of couple different different type of people. So it doesn't apply to everyone. But let's say in general, with different degrees, there are different styles of communications and understanding reality. Because all the stories you just said is the same in our marriage.

Absolutely the exact same. Like my wife will come to me. She's like, OK, let's have a brainstorming session. She'll make a point.

And in the moment she mentioned a point, I'm already in my brain thinking, OK, now, how do I execute this? When do we go there? you know, and then point number two, number three, I'm like, wait, wait, wait, wait, I'm still at point one, I'm still trying to figure out how we do point one, I'm like, we haven't finished that, the box, let's stay in the box, and she just wanted to exactly say, share all the details in that, so she had to learn exactly, be more concise, I always tell her, just start from the end, start from the finish.

I have to learn the opposite. So for example, now, and she's, she comes from work and a tough day, isn't that she sits down. And she's like, Oh, you know, this guy did this, or this happened. And immediately I'm like, Well, this is how you solve it. Do this, do that. You should have done that. And of course, that never works.

versus now I just sit with it. I was like, oh, tell me more. Why did this person? And she loves that.

But that is something that I naturally would never do in my life. Like it's just not in me. So I have to learn which button to press, you know, to get the candy out of the machine. And likewise with me.

And I think marriage is a lot of that. It's not about what you feel more tuned into, is how can you learn about the other person and adapt because in the moment you do they will adapt to you yes effort it's like oh he did that for me he you know he didn't give me advice he just listened to me how nice next time i'll start from the end because no that's it just get exchange it's an exchange right but on this i must say and again last time i feel in the window of the chariot i tried to bring this point out didn't really come across i think in sahaj i don't want to be biased but i think sometimes can be a bit harder for your guineas and i'll explain why in marriage because statistically if you see a different things like for example women live more longer right why because they have a healthier life lifestyle they eat better they they have a different type of like not all of the women of the world but on on trend you know they live about a decade more than that uh looking such 70 of the new people when you go to a program was it is women almost across every country they have a natural attunement toward you know meditation kundalini isn't that then even you look within the marriage at least in the couples i know usually the the wife is always the one that will try to do what is morally right versus the husband will have a bit more of a practical approach in this and that so what you have with all of this is a person especially the wife that will have a very high awareness of what's the right thing to do and will try to use her intuition to do so and then you have the husband that is not inferior but just works in a different way So I feel it can be quite difficult for the wife who has these 50 things in her mind that she wants to do and do things properly and be morally oriented and this and that, to not knock the husband. Because he's just there sitting on the couch, you know, like, I'm so good, you know. And she's like, come on, wake up, we have to do this, we have to do this, look at the kids, they need this, they need that, you know.

or you know that I see at least in my case the level of the expectation of meditation and my wife was to bring to the kids since they were small so it was very high they are the children of Shri Mataji we need to do this and I was like oh come on their kids just let them be you know go around you need both it's not like the man is inferior but in the dynamic of things because the wife is so active and so morally oriented and there's so much that she needs to cover, there will be a tendency to criticize. Because if I was in that position, I would criticize all the time because I'm like, I'm doing all this work. What are you bringing to the table, right? So I feel what you brought up today, this advice that Shri Mataji gave you, I think is super important because I think women in the family, in Sahaj, they take a very big portion of the work and they are very involved and they're trying to keep the expectations up here. And they have an expectation and everybody else does it.

And the husband is not always very reactive of understanding of that. And that sometimes, so I think on one end, as in your case, the wife needs to be able to sometimes, even if you feel very angry, upset to tone down. But the husband also needs to become more reactive to the needs and expectations that are, again, usually morally driven of the wife. But that will happen. And that takes time. You know, I say to young people, you have to realize that your husband has been a single person. And you can't switch overnight. You know, I mean, as women, like you say, we're a bit more tuned in to, but they led a certain lifestyle and it just takes some time.

So what you see right now, it's not going to be like that for the rest of his life. You know, you just have to give him time so he can change and see what you need in a nice way. And I have to say that my husband was completely, totally resistant to any advice or instruction or anything. That's what to me. Absolutely.

Yes. So I had to learn. Absolutely. So just like you say, you know, there would be things that needed doing in the house.

But if I went and asked him or said to him, he would get annoyed, you know. And when I think back, he was, I mean, it took a while for him to get a stable job. You know, he was trying to do different things. But once he started working, he did that every day from eight to five.

He went every day and he did that. And so he was all the time in the vibrations of the outside world, you know, and he would come home. And I would find it very difficult in the beginning because my family, in my family, we were talkers. we shared about everything you know you can ask someone my brother we were just like open communication but with my husband his family are different he's learned a different way to communicate and he felt overwhelmed you know at times and so one thing I learned which was like a sort of brilliant idea mother gave me was that so I would in the end I thought okay I'll make a list of what we need you know things that need to be done in the house and i'll put it on the fridge and i just say these are things i i feel like we need to do and and i can't remember if i said if you could do something that would help or if i just left it but he understood you know he understood and then he would pick what he felt like doing at the time you know and that just took a whole level of aggravation out yes and and i mean and you just have to learn to accept that they're not always going to do what you would like them to do you know and and in fact finally i reached a point and i have to say it did take me quite a long time um when i just let go of this need oh this needs to be done this needs to be done you know and and then i became more relaxed okay this is the list we'll just get to it when we can and do that and he became more relaxed and it was just much much better absolutely no but this is this is all part of growing in a marriage and growing in yourself in learning what to let go of you know what to let go and one thing we mentioned before um was that i learned quite early on not to make a big deal about the little things save save your conversation energy for something that's more important you know like um shall i tell the story about when i wanted to send about sending to room so so we were um uh so uh we missed sending gautama to rome we were in canada and we didn't understand that they'd suddenly all got too old and left and gone on you know gone to Switzerland so we was kind of like well I think we should send Shreya now or you know they were close in age we'll miss out because we were in Canada there was like three other children in the collective um very small collective you know and you really wanted them to have this and Shumarichi had really um made this when she had said about um I want you all to get married and to have children she'd said and I will build you a school I will make you a school that you can send the children to and they will go there and you can go and be teachers and they will be brought up there you know so we were very um conscious that you know this was important and so but I couldn't feel vibrationally I just you know you usually I would get a strong feeling oh we should do this now you know like you were saying this kind of moral compass especially regarding the children and what's good for them and and and I learned you know I learned that I learned to trust that in myself and I learned to understand like you said that he didn't see things in the same way you know and I I I was saying before that we I went to the puja the Shri Fatima Puja in 1988 and Shri Mataji gives a really amazing talk about marriage about husbands and wives and after that puja I felt like something changed inside me and I I'd been kind of trying to find my role you know like I at that point I understood that my husband is different from me you know we don't always see eye to eye about things and and I didn't know I've always been like a conciliator you know keep the peace and I didn't know how to handle this and after this talk it was like mother gave permission I felt it's okay that we're different that's okay you know we don't always have to agree about everything but we do have to sometimes compromise like if somebody one of us feels really important about something then the other one you know that's what i learned okay this is really important to him i'm going to have to let this go you know later somehow this will work out but at this moment in time it's i'm not you know not going to make an argument or a big confrontation we let this go This is super important to him. So I learned that.

So in this talk, Shumaraji, afterwards, I felt, oh, that's my job. My job is to look after the dharma of the family and the morality of the family. So if I see something that I really feel is not good for us morally, then I can say something. That's okay to stand up for that because that's my job.

you know um so it was a hugely um important um thing so i was just so i'll go back so so there we are i can't feel should we send shrey or not you know and i thought oh look i'm always making all these decisions you know let me give him a chance yes make him feel good about himself and so i said to him you know i can't feel either way um what do you think what do you feel and he said well we don't really have the money and you know we never did I have to say we never really ever had the money but sometimes you make a decision and they come and he said I I think it's fine you know she'll stay here so the next morning I finished my meditation and as I bow down I immediately feel I'm bowing up I feel mother say to me send Shreya to Rome and I went no no how am I going to do this? And I thought, how can I say to him, you know, it was like the worst scenario, but it was so strong, you know, of course, I can't deny what Sharmada Ji said. And at that time, he wasn't particularly, he's not somebody who feels vibration, you know, I get these, I feel inside, I can feel, oh, this is the right thing. situation. Yeah. And so, so I had to, I thought, Oh, I have to go and say it in literally the next day, you know? And so I went and I said, you know, I just had this experience in the meditation and he went, Oh, you and your experiences, you know, what do you mean? He was really cross.

And, and I just, so I didn't say anything more, you know, I went away and I just kept saying to mother how is this going to work out I don't know how am I going you know how how am I going to work how is this going to work out mother you know and so I just sort of so I've learned at this time so I just sort of left it for most of the day and then I just kind of said something like you know well I think we could do such and such you know or I'm really sorry that it changed you know but what what can I do and then it just sort of went on like that for two or three days and then on the third day and I didn't nag at him I didn't you know go on I literally surrendered it mother please you help I can't do this you have to work this out the third day he just said oh all right if you want to send a sender like that you know but it didn't matter you know he he's um you know he'd come round and so so it's really important when I was talking to my daughter about this you know we were saying how I really wanted to do this podcast because I felt that I don't feel like we're giving enough support to people to couples after they're married you know there's a lot of challenges and things and I felt like you know maybe I could share some of my experiences that might help people see that it's you know it it has its stages and you have you have your suddenly things are going along nicely and then suddenly something happens and there's a bit of a drama and you know how do you get through those times and and she said to me and this applies to everything the marriage you're putting your name down being matched making a decision getting married through your married life she said it's all about your connection with Srimatiji she said only shumataji knows you and your husband your family and your situation only she can give you the help and the advice people other people you know you can always listen to what people say but ultimately it's only who's there for you and i was i was in canada you know we got married went to canada five yogis in the ashram who just got realization three months beforehand and you know things came up and i just had to deepen my relationship with mother but she always came through for me i just you'd be surrendered you'd be detached you may not get the answer immediately you may be washing the dishes and suddenly oh ping you know oh i could try it that way you know how do i solve this this seems to be a conflict i don't know what you know oh try it this way so you can't underestimate the power of your relationship with shamataji how she's given us all these powers especially as women we are much stronger and deeper than we think and you grow into it you know by having children having a family you know even through all those hard difficult physical times of being a mother you get blessings you know you get blessings and that helps you you know through other things and we had after we've been married about seven years i remember i can't remember what the details were but something happened it's not like we had an argument because i really didn't argue you know i just mother said don't argue so i didn't i tried to use vibrations and um it was important for us to meditate together that's the biggest help if you meditate together every day once a week we would do pujas because when you meditate you somehow in that meditation when you're in Sahasrara in the same room together problems and things just get worked out or we learned this in the ashram we learned that when you meditate regularly every day together things that could become a big deal somehow something mother changes something within you and and this works out so you know that's a really big support for you but so so here we are we're in this situation and he says something and it's like a deal breaker for me it's like suddenly this brick wall comes up and I go how are we going to get past this I don't see how we can be married like this I can't and I cannot remember what it was about and I must have prayed to mother because as I always did when it was a difficult thing.

And I just said, help me, Mother. I don't know what to do.

And again, you know, I just surrendered. I just let it be. And then on the third day, he came and he said something to me. And I just realized it's behind us.

It all melted away. And I went, oh, it's not a big drama. It's not a big deal. It's, you know, I mean, sometimes husbands, I've learned.

I've always tried to be very honest. and say what I, you know, think of the truth. But sometimes, you know, he would just say things.

Like when he decided, he said, I'm never going to fly on an airplane again. And I thought, well, how's that going to work for us, you know? And my daughter said, oh, no, no, mum, don't, you know, he just said things. Don't pay attention.

So in one fell swoop, this big thing that I thought was like the end of the marriage, it just went. You know, so I really learned, you know, mother said to me, don't make dramas about things, you know, like just and you really learn to witness. I thought I was a patient person before I got married. I thought I was a patient person before I had children.

Then I discovered I wasn't a patient person at all. And you have to learn, you know, but all these things that you have to change in yourself, all these things you have to learn not to react to, you know, how to become more detached. and it takes time you know it's like mothers and she keeps throwing up the same test oh you've not detached yet you've not done this you know and she throws this up and then but it makes you freer you you let go as you work out one thing it's like oh poof it's gone yeah there is uh something before that you said that really made me laugh and I think many many couples are like that we are definitely one of those that as you said if the wife will insist too much on something the husband will go at infinite lengths not to do it like at the incredible capacity to resist and i remember there was the story is so funny my wife is amazing because she's very health conscious and food especially especially since the kids were born so good food fresh food isn't that I'm from Italy, so, you know, Nutella for breakfast and, you know, eat whenever, whatever, you know, very opposite words. And there was a certain time that she was nudging me a lot to, you know, oh, don't eat so much bread, don't do this, don't do that. And of course, I wasn't having any of it, zero.

And it made things worse. And once I was supposed to go to buy bread or something. And preamble, I never drink orange juice. It's not just something that I usually don't, you know.

but as I'm going out to buy some bread, she's telling me a story of something that she wrote on Instagram of how orange juice is a hawk and, you know, that it's not real, that you need it, you know, something medical about how orange juice is actually not needed. I've never bought orange juice in my life.

I go to the supermarket just to buy bread.

I've forgotten about the conversation with her. I pass by the drink parts and I see this orange juice. And all of a sudden it looks so seducing. So I'm so thirsty.

I need orange juice. So I take orange juice. I put it in the bag with the bread, you know. And then I just open the door.

And I forgot everything, you know. And then she looks at the bag. She looks at me like, are you kidding me? Like you never bought orange juice in your entire life.

and I started laughing. I was in tears because I saw it all. I saw the dynamic. I knew what happened, you know.

The drama, the Maya. I didn't think about it. I just knew it subconsciously. I was like, oh, you don't want me to do it?

I'm going to do exactly that. So it was so funny because I could see it, you know, and I was like laughing so much about it. Well, it's also, it's like a little trick, you know, that mother plays on you. But I think also you were talking about, you know, talking together and communicating so often.

And I think one has to be really careful about this in marriage, that there are misunderstandings and miscommunications because the husband says something or does something. And we think from our experience that they're doing it because of such and such. But if you take the time to ask or talk and understand, you find, you know, so sometimes these little situations or dramas come up because it's an opportunity for us to understand each other better. i'm i'm a little conscious of of the time and i'm wondering i'm wondering if if i should just briefly talk about um the unusual wedding or did you want do you do we have time i would say yes we can we can close with that i think we can close with the uh okay i'll try to keep it a little bit yes if we can in 10 minutes and maybe i'll give a little introduction because for those that have been following us for years now. A couple of years ago, we had an episode with the Marriage Committee.

It's called Sahaj Marriages IMC.

And Antti Vittoria and Uncle Marco were there, and they described this very rare occasion in which Shri Mataji made the marriages in a completely different way. And it was very different from what we actually have ever heard. When I heard that story, I'm like, man, this sounds insane. And then it stayed in my mind.

But I never met anyone who was there. And then here comes Auntie who got married that year. So now tell us the story.

So I went on India tour 1982.

And so I'll try to keep it short.

We were, I think we might have been nearby Turner. So this is February. We're halfway through the tour, February 14th, something like that. And we're sitting outside with Shri Mataji, you know, as we did all in front of her.

And suddenly she says, so what about these marriages? She said. Oh, I was just thinking that I wanted to say I had put my name down because I suddenly. so before I left in when I was in England suddenly something changed in me and I felt oh I think it's time to get married inside me I felt I felt like I've gone as far as I've grown as a single person and and I felt I want to get married I want to have someone to love and look after that and i i was and i felt at the time i think i was a bit idealistic too but i felt like i could love anybody you know and so i put my name down so there i am sitting with shumataji you know here and she starts to talk about the marriages and she said so i've been getting i've so i'm not i must say it i can't say it like shumataji says but she said she said i've been getting some criticism about doing these matches and arranging those matches so this year I've decided you can choose your person the person that you want to marry and I just went what no way no way can I do that and so then she said everybody uh who wants to get married please stand up so about i'd say out of a tour of 82 people 27 people stood up so 27 is not very many because there were only like a dozen men in that list you know so that's not a lot to choose for maybe a few more there must have been a few more and then she said so then she talked about then people sat down and then in turn they stood up and she talked a little bit she said something about every single person who had put their name on the list and or who had wanted to get married and sometimes she said like oh yes um he drives me around he's a very good driver you know generally everything was very positive positive if somebody had well so for me before me she got to pam and she said oh pam such a beautiful heart such an open heart i went oh yes that's what i would like and then she comes to me and she says she says terrible left side very and i was just like oh and then she counteracted as always she balanced everything and she said but not an aggressive bone in her body so sweet and i was all right i take that i'll take you You know, yeah. So anyway, so so she went all the way around and she said very lovely things about about my husband, which was nice, you know.

And you have to understand that she hardly met most of those people she'd never met. She hadn't met. They come on the tour, you know, but she didn't know them. But yet she did know, you know, she knew everybody.

So then she said, now go away and write down on a piece of paper, choose three names and write them on a piece of paper. and then you give them to Warren.

So I went away and I thought, you know, I don't want to do this. My mother said we have to do this. So then I started to think, there was about 12 men, I think, on the list and I put my attention in each one. And I was going, oh, none of these feel, you know, very good.

And then I got to my now husband and we'd had a conversation in a group in a cafe and I had felt at that time, and I remember saying some things and I thought and then he said something else I thought he doesn't understand me at all he doesn't get me at all you know and because he was interested in talking about baseball and things and I want to talk about deep emotional things you know stuff like that and so when I got to his name I went oh not compatible at all you know I didn't even think about it was just like nope you know so then after some struggling I put three names down And then I wrote, I'm willing to travel because I always felt I'd marry someone else. I went from England. And I put, but I'll marry whoever, whoever Shri Mataji says I will marry. So then all the names go in.

And then the next day, Warren is coming in a little, I don't know, rickshaw or car or something. And so he's coming into the camp and he goes to different people, you know, and you can see him. My husband tells this beautifully. He was like a little sort of postman in a way.

And you could see him going to all the different people and having a little conversation and then going away. And I thought, and at that point I got cold feet and I thought, oh, I'm not ready to get married. I can't, you know, I'll go and tell him. So I was feeling very nervous about the whole thing.

And so I went and I said, oh, I want to take my name off the list. And he went, oh, actually, Shumandaji's found someone for you. And so immediately everything changed. And you go, oh, who is it?

And he said, Richard. And I went, Richard.

so i was you know understandably very shocked but the nice thing was that it was very innocent because i hadn't thought about him or put attention on it it was like complete it was pure yeah so at at some point but i was still a bit confused you know i mean i trusted mother but this just felt like such opposite you know so different and so he went off you know and then he comes back again and he's sort of beetling around and at some point I went up and I said I just wanted to know is Shri Mataji happy with the match and he said oh yes yes she's very happy and later I heard that she said that I was very left-sided he was very right-sided so it made it made a good match and she also said to him if listy says no i have someone else in mind for you you know so i think it's really important to remember that okay okay aunt k said to me that Shri Mataji told her and i'm sorry this is hearsay that there's a good six different people who will make a good match for you you know so that um we shouldn't feel like oh that was the one i've lost the one or yes it's not like that you know it's a lot more it's just we have this romantic idea of the soulmate you know it's not like that sahaj marriage is very normal it's very normal you know it's not like that so larger than our life also it's just larger than your yeah yeah so then um um so then we oh yes so then jamaraji said so there were i think there were about so there were a certain number of matches maybe about eight or ten and there were six six matches of people who'd come on the tour who were already married before they came to sahaj yoga and they wanted to have a sahaj marriage so jamaraji said to us okay so you've accepted your match now you You can only talk two minutes each day. That's it. Two minutes, you know. Oh, my goodness.

So I could see this was so that people's egos didn't come up and you start thinking about, oh, this is not good match, you know, like that. You really worked hard to try to help us not to think about it too much, you know.

So then we were standing in the dinner queue. So it didn't mean you couldn't. So I figured it didn't mean you couldn't be with them. You just couldn't talk to them, you know. So we're standing in the dinner queue and I'm standing behind him.

And sudden. And so at this point, so because when I heard that Chamaduji was happy with the match, I just surrendered completely. I just went, OK, it's fine. This is great. This is a match. I don't understand why it's a good match, but, you know, that's fine.

and I was just really surrendered and opened my heart and then you know we did talk a little bit and you start by being together you get a sense you know you can feel their spirit feel them as a being so it's very beautiful when you're not actually talking because you're feeling the essence of the person and he was very light and joyful and he was funny he made me laugh you know um nice things like this so i could feel so when we were together standing in that queue i felt comfortable together i felt actually a bit safe you know i felt safe with him and she said that later you know i thought he would make you feel secure which was so sweet you know these lovely things so i'm standing there in the queue behind him just enjoying being there you know we're in the dinner queue and then suddenly i felt like mother say inside of me you are two halves of the same coin one of you's the heads one of you's the tails and together you make a whole wow and i felt her say inside his strengths are your weaknesses your strengths are his weaknesses so together you will help each other and and then i felt her say deep things what did she say it was like little things you can talk to each other about and change you know superficial things but deep things will take time and you have to let that go you know and that was such good advice because i could see that you know especially in the first year year of marriage i could see that there were like deep i wouldn't say personality things that he was just ways of behaving you know that he'd grown up in his family and this is why they were doing things and that and there was no point to try and talk about them because he wasn't aware of them you know he didn't think that was anything wrong and and in and in a lot of ways you know it wasn't wrong it was just different and then and then I felt mother say to me superficially on the outside you are very different but inside you have the same like moral core you know sense of and and that's very true that about deep things you know we've always been on the same page about dharmic things and you know what's important in the family with the children and things like that we've always been on this and and also how you relate to people outside you know about honesty and um and just respect and you know those things so all those important things but outside she said you know you've had different I felt her, you know, saying you had different upbringings, different families, and his family was totally different to mine. They were actually a blessing, a complete blessing. But, you know, so, and she said, gradually, those outside things will drop away and you will come into the center together. And that's exactly what happened.

And it took time and the rough things, you know, worked out and rubbed off. and just by being together and living together and going through your little tests or your little dramas you just become closer and every time you have like some big challenge and you work through it and you come through the other side even if it's a bit uncomfortable or there's some not happy words you know it creates a deeper bond it creates a deeper bond so you shouldn't be afraid of challenges or afraid of you know tests it's all part of weaving you both together and we and because of what mother had said also about the children as soon as we got married um i just and i could feel you know we're very different this is going to take a while to sort of sort ourselves together and i felt her you know we both agreed we're going to have children straight away and and really that all our generation did that because this is what you know mother's waiting for them to grow up so get on with it you know have have the children and the other thing that she said to me one time um she came to the airport she would always say to me when she saw when we you know met she'd come to Canada and she's saying how are you you know for years she'd say to me and how are you and often at the time early on I wasn't feeling good inside but you learned you always said I'm fine mother you know and she knew you weren't but you know that's what you were supposed to say and then one one time she came and the children must have been like you know six and five or something and and i was feeling good i was actually like a lot of this stuff through living in canada being married to my husband it had just really worked out so much in the left side without me trying just by being there you know it worked out and she i was standing next to my husband we had the children and she comes and she says um she started talking to him and she said and where's felicity and i'm right next to him and she knows me but where's felicity you know and then then i said oh i'm right here man she goes i knew the children would work it out you know so you know i mean that was the whole point you you know she sent us these beautiful little souls and they change us they you know they they change our lives and i do want to say because I've said so many not necessarily complimentary things about my husband but you know oh what a really special person you know he turned he was and he and when we were having difficult times sometimes and I just feel like oh I you know I'd be crying I have to say I'd be crying on my own you know yeah and then I I just suddenly thought I'm where's the photo where's that photo of him and I had this photo of him when he was a bit younger before we were married and he's just so sweet and pure and innocent and joyful and I just went this is who I married this is the spirit this is the spirit of my husband and all this other stuff is nothing it's just going to go away you know and that sort of helped me to just sort of hold on to things and I was far away you know we had very few people in the collective I didn't really have people except for his mum who wasn't a Sahaja Yogini to help or support me.

But I had mother.

And so to people who say, oh, but you always had mother with you to help you through all these things, I didn't. She wasn't there, but she was there for me inside. So I really want people to understand that, that you're not alone in your marriage. Sometimes you feel like that.

Sometimes you feel very confused. And, you know, and what my husband was so, as we spent more time together, I could see his really beautiful qualities, which were very different from me. But I could also see things that at the time I felt were weaknesses or, you know, not such good things. but over the years as we got older and now we're retired all the things that i thought were kind of weaknesses are actually really positive pluses and he's made my life as a retired person you know living back in england such a joy you know i don't think i i could do that so you know it's really when you're married you're in for the the long haul you should be in for the long haul and you can't see the bigger picture at the beginning you know you can't see the perspective and I think I I I'm grateful that we had those experiences with Shri Mataji where she really established in us that these marriages also aren't not just for you personally you know I had wanted to share what is a sahaj marriage so it's a hard sahaj marriage is different from a regular marriage because it's for your evolutionary growth, because it's for our spiritual path. And the way the matches happen is you are not only matched vibrationally with opposites, but culturally.

The culture is a big thing, you know? And when we, after 18 months, we went back and lived in England for 18 months. And I think that really helped us because my husband could see I wasn't just this weird person who liked to wear floral clothes and had floral flowers everywhere but I was actually English and in England that's what they liked and that's what they did you know so I think it really gave him a better understanding of me he didn't make so many jokes about me and my flowers after that and I so I think and also if you go and you spend time with the family, each person's family, then you also understand where they're coming from, you know, and it just, when you understand, it gives you more compassion. So when you have a reaction, try to think, well, why is he doing this? You know, where is this coming from?

And why am I reacting? Why am I reacting? I shouldn't be reacting. I asked Shumataji one time very early on every time I kept finding I was having like critical thoughts about or judgmental thoughts or thinking just thoughts about other people and she said to me why is your attention on other people why isn't your attention on yourself and I think that applies for marriage too you know why are you worrying about him or what he's saying or what he's doing just concentrate you know just be the best you can be so anyway very you know i just wanted to say you know that oh and the last thing about sahaj marriages is it's not just for us it is for the collective it is for the changing of humanity and i was very conscious of that and i remember one time when I was crying to myself and I kept feeling you know what if I can work this out in our marriage then this will help all those other marriages and Shri Mataji said to us that each person in Sahaja Yoga works out for 10,000 others that's what she said so it's this monkey see monkey do you know as it works out for you it spreads this ripple effect for other people so I that helped me to see the bigger picture and to understand how by matching people from different cultures and different backgrounds that we create this beautiful new alliance you know in one spell swoop all our personal baggage our conditionings are just cut like that you know and as we were saying before that the only the two things that usually that we had conflicts about for was money and parenting styles parenting styles yeah and you just have to work that out you just have to you know I came from a very strict background very critical you know background also very loving but that and my husband came from an incredibly loving totally non-judgmental background when I was with his mother and I went, oh, I said to him, you grew up in a family like this.

I can't believe it where people are actually nice to each other all the time. And because my, you know, and, and I remember being with his mom and feeling unconditional love from her. And I thought, I thought this, this is, this is what it feels like to be loved and not judged. And it made me want to be the best person you know it made it's like within traumadagy's presence she she just focused on you and on your spirit and it lifted you it elevated you into being a better person into highlighting all the good qualities you are she didn't bother with all the negative stuff you know unless it was you know you were sobbing or crying or something you know you know and it goes back to what she said to that leader don't focus on the negative you know just let it come up and it will i'm working it out it'll go away you know just focus on the positive and i think if you can do that and trust yourself that you can work this out you know mother is giving you all the tools it may take a little time you know and marriage goes in stages i definitely felt after seven years like oh we've crossed a lot of bridges now and 15 years I remember feeling or 16 years I remember feeling wow I think we've really learned about each other and adjusted and all these things you know and then we got to 20 years and we had a wedding anniversary party at the ashram and we took all this food and it was really a love and I felt I just felt so high on vibrations and I remember feeling like why what am I feeling why I'm feeling so special and loved and I just want to give joy to everyone and I suddenly felt like it's very hard to explain this in words but I felt like that I had somehow accumulated boons and blessings from you know sticking it out and not I shouldn't say sticking it out but just staying with it you know staying with it and and being there for it and and I have to say that you know my husband bless him I was the one that would take all the kids to the to schools and I you know I was the kind of the active one in a way you know and it would have been we never had much money and but he he went to work every day he stuck in that job and he was a complete support when we ran that Vancouver Sahaj school for three years he was like bottom of the of the list you know it was like the school came the kids came first the school came first and and if he was lucky I had a bit of time for him he never complained I remember saying to him I'm really sorry honey you know and he said no this is what's important the children need this you know and but you don't see that when you're first married you're not in that situation you don't know how he's going to come up and what's the word he's going to rise up to the occasion and be there for these things that you need so I just can't say enough you know be patient give it time I know not always all marriages work but a lot I've seen you know sometimes fall apart and you feel like oh I think if they'd had a bit more support you know um you know mother could have talked to them or something she would have helped them see them through so anyway I just want to give all my love and support to all the couples coming up and just try not to it's hard because it's a very it's an important thing in your life but it will work out if it doesn't work out the first time or the second time it will work out and just stick in there and it you know after how many 43 years of marriage it's a lot of joy we still sometimes you know get a bit annoyed with each other but that's okay you know when you've been I mean that's that's the thing I was thinking this in meditation today that that first year is really important to make each other feel loved you know I was very aware that my husband was a little bit insecure you know and that I had to so you don't nag you don't criticize you don't have these long park bench conversations about what they're doing wrong or what they should be doing you know just enjoy just enjoy let mother work it out anyway I know I've said way too much but hopefully no it was lovely aunt it was no no it's been two hours oh I'm so sorry I'm so sorry this is this might be like the longest episode so far I did say I had problems not you know I think it's fine actually to support I just feel that we really need you know there's always up to the wedding and then what about after the wedding you You know, mother said that she wished somebody would write books about, you know, in the marriage, being married and all the nice things.

And, you know, so this is a little bit to help. But I'm sure other, you know, there's lots of other people who could share and be supportive and not to feel like what you said, Fatim, about not. Sorry, Fabi, about not.

Fatima Trezza. no no no no it's because we have this lovely Turkish yogi in Vancouver called Fatty so my brain is programmed to say Fatty not Fabi what was I going to say that's gone never mind never mind enough said well thank you for having me on for so long maybe you can do it in two parts I don't know let's see it's actually one one and a half, maybe one and thirty, because we talked for like 20-30 minutes before.

So I think that we can wrap it up. Thank you really much, Antti, for the insights, for the experiences and I think people will actually find it really, really interesting also because you mentioned the stories with Shri Mataji quite a lot, which is like what we were actually aiming for, so especially me as I asked you like the last time we had a chat. So I don't know if Fabrizio has to say anything or we can just close it. I was just, so I remember now what I wanted to say was to don't be afraid to ask for help.

Like you can ask someone, I'm confused, you know, this is happening. We don't want to hear a lot of complaints, you know, that's not good for you.

But ask, you know, there's nothing wrong with just saying i'm confused you know i don't understand this or that and i'm sure you'll find lots of aunties you know there for you we're all rooting for you we're all rooting for you yes it's important it's a collective marriage it's something that the collective should support and if you have any doubts beforehand please say no don't go through with the marriage you know if you're crying on the day there is something wrong it's not going to get better after you get married if you've got doubts and you still get married the negativity is just going to work on your doubts you know and it's it's really hard you my my feeling is that you should feel comfortable to with each other you have that faith that you know mother has this is a good match and then that will guide you through on these beautiful notes thank you so much like Lele said I really enjoyed also hearing how it evolved at the beginning and how there were a few matches and then it got more and more structured you know in this particular experience you had it was very very very loving I'm sure everyone is going to like it so good Lele thank you so much Aunty and sorry that I disappeared my computer died at some point so I'm joining with the phone now probably the audio is not so good actually it was really funny to see you from the phone camera so thank you everyone for listening this was Sahaj Times Podcast thank you very much Antti thank you very much Fabri good evening have a good night bye Thanks for reading. Thanks for reading.
